WIP: DOC: Add Technical Reference page for reference and anchor points (#4052)
GenericMappingTools/pygmt: doc/techref/reference_anchor_points.md

---
file_format: mystnb
---

# Reference and anchor points

For placing plot embellishments, we distinguish between reference and anchor points. To set
these points users have to use the [justification codes](/techref/justification_codes.md).

> The `offset` parameter allows to offset the anchor point from the reference point.

Reviewer: Yes, ideally these changes should be done in one release.

---
file_format: mystnb
---

# Reference and Anchor Points

> For placing plot embellishments on a figure, we distinguish between two points: a point

Reviewer: Docstrings are pasted here:
```
    position
        Specify the reference point on the plot for the GMT logo. The method of defining
        the reference point is controlled by ``position_type``, and the exact location
        is set by ``position``.
    position_type
        Specify the type of coordinates used to define the reference point. It can be
        one of the following values:

        - ``"mapcoords"``: ``position`` is specified as (*longitude*, *latitude*) in map
          coordinates. Example: (120, -45) places the reference point at 120°E, 45°S.
        - ``"boxcoords"``: ``position`` is specified as (*nx*, *ny*) in normalized
          coordinates, i.e., fractional values between 0 and 1 along the x- and y-axes.
          Example: (0, 0) corresponds to the lower-left corner, and (1, 1) to the
          upper-right corner of the plot bounding box.
        - ``"plotcoords"``: ``position`` is specified as (*x*, *y*) in plot coordinates,
          i.e., distances from the lower-left plot origin given in inches, centimeters,
          or points. Example: ("1c", "2c") places the reference point 1 cm to the right
          and 2 cm above the plot origin.
        - ``"inside"`` or ``"outside"``: ``position`` is one of the nine
          :doc:`two-character justification codes </techref/justification_codes>`,
          indicating a specific location relative to the plot bounding box. Example:
          ``"TL"`` places the reference point at the top-left corner, either inside or
          outside the bounding box.
    anchor
        Specify the anchor point of the GMT logo, using one of the
        :doc:`2-character justification codes </techref/justification_codes>`.
        The default value depends on ``position_type``.

        - ``position_type="inside"``: ``anchor`` defaults to the same as ``position``.
        - ``position_type="outside"``: ``anchor`` defaults to the mirror opposite of
          ``position``.
        - Otherwise, ``anchor`` defaults to ``"MC"`` (middle center).
    anchor_offset
        Specifies an offset for the anchor point as *offset* or
        (*offset_x*, *offset_y*). If a single value *offset* is given, both *offset_x*
        and *offset_y* are set to *offset*.
```

somewhere on the figure (**reference point**) and a point on the feature (**anchor point**).
Four parameters are used to set and adjust these two points:

- `position`: a point somewhere on the figure corresponding to `position_type`.
- `position_type`: how to specify `position`. Choose between
   - ``"inside"`` / ``"outside"`` (**j** / **J**): inside / outside the plot bounding box using the [justification codes](/techref/reference_anchor_points.md).
   - ``"mapcoords"`` (**g**): map coordinates.
   - ``"plotcoords"`` (**x**): plot coordinates with a unit.

>    - ``"boxcoords"`` (**n**): normalized (0-1) coordinates corresponding to the bounding box.

Reviewer: These single-letter codes make no sense in PyGMT.
```suggestion
   - ``"inside"`` / ``"outside"``: inside / outside the plot bounding box using the [justification codes](/techref/reference_anchor_points.md).
   - ``"mapcoords"``: map coordinates.
   - ``"plotcoords"``: plot coordinates with a unit.
   - ``"boxcoords"``: normalized (0-1) coordinates corresponding to the bounding box.
```
